Progesterone, your calming and relaxing hormone, tends to slooow things down, especially your digestion, by relaxing the muscles in your digestive tract, which can lead to uncomfortable symptoms like constipation and bloat. Cooking most of the foods in this chapter (especially starches and grains, vegetables and fruits, meat and poultry, etc) helps to make them easier to digest and extract nutrients from, working to support large intestine functionality and increase transit time, leading to more regular bowel movements. 

+ DON’T CUT CARBS

Slow burning complex carbohydrates help to stabilize blood sugar levels and boost your feel-good neurotransmitter serotonin, which acts as a natural appetite suppressant and mood stabilizer. Opt for the fiber and nutrient-rich options listed paired with a source of high quality protein and fat to prevent a blood sugar spike. *If grains don’t work well for you, as can be the case in those with an autoimmune condition, starchy root vegetables and fruits are great fiber-rich sources. 

+ EAT REGULARLY & OFTEN

Because blood sugar is less stable and resting cortisol levels are higher during your luteal phase, skipping meals or eating irregularly signals to your adrenals to pump out cortisol to compensate for fluctuating blood sugar levels. This means you have more stress hormones circulating in your bloodstream, which can lead to an increase in mood swings, cravings, sleep issues, anxiety and fat storage, to name a few. Focus on eating three consistent, nourishing meals per day, adding in a snack or two if needed. 

+ BOOST HYDRATION WITH ELECTROLYTES + SALT 

You know how important it is to drink water regularly, but to maintain proper fluid levels you’ll want to also prioritize electrolytes and salt. These contain essential minerals – sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium and magnesium – that provide a myriad of functions, from supporting energy levels, adrenal health and fluid balance to maintaining the correct plasma volume in your bloodstream to providing adequate stomach acid necessary for the absorption of vitamins and minerals and facilitating protein digestion.

Low salt intake has been associated with a higher risk for PMS, most likely because it triggers the adrenal glands to release a hormone called aldosterone, which leads to fluid and sodium retention. If you experience fluid retention leading during this phase, it’s likely you need to consume more salt, not less. Additionally, insufficient intake of electrolytes like magnesium and calcium have been shown to contribute to cycle issues including cramping, breast tenderness, fluid retention (i.e. bloat) headaches or migraines and mood changes. Drinking plenty of fluids along with consuming hydrating minerals will work to naturally combat these symptoms.