SERVES: 3
 
TIME: 25 minutes
 
FOR THE RICE
 
100 g basmati rice (or use 250 g / 9 oz pre-cooked rice)
 
FOR THE STICKY TOFU
 
2 tablespoons olive oil

280g firm tofu, drained & cut into 1 cm / ½″ cubes

1 tablespoon chilli oil

1 tablespoon maple syrup

1 pinch of flaky sea salt
 
FOR THE VEGETABLES
 
1 tablespoon olive oil

2 large garlic cloves, finely chopped

1 small chunk of ginger (about 30 g / 1 oz), grated/finely chopped

2 red chillies, finely chopped

½ hispi cabbage, thinly sliced

1 handful of kale (about 50 g / 1.8 oz), roughly sliced

1 leek, very thinly sliced

100 g frozen peas (or petit pois) defrosted

2 tablespoons tamari

2 tablespoons kimchi (optional)
 
METHOD
 
1. Pour the rice into a small saucepan, along with 200 ml / 7 fl oz water and a large pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, then cover with a lid, reduce the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes until all of the water has been absorbed. Remove from the heat and set aside.

2. While the rice is cooking, warm 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a medium frying pan set over medium-high heat. Add the tofu and cook for 10 minutes, turning every so often, until crisp and golden on all sides.
 
3. Add the chilli oil and maple syrup and bubble for 1–2 minutes to create a sticky sauce that coats the tofu. Season with a pinch of sea salt flakes, then remove from the pan and set aside.
 
4. Wipe the pan clean with kitchen paper, increase the heat to high and drizzle in 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Add the garlic, ginger and chilli (if using) and fry for 3–4 minutes until just golden (be careful that the garlic doesn’t burn).
 
5. Quickly stir in the cooked rice and place the cabbage, kale, leek and peas on top. Let the vegetables sit for 1–2 minutes without stirring. Then add the tamari and stir everything through; cook for 3–5 minutes until the vegetables are just tender.
 
6. To serve, stir through the sticky tofu, then divide between bowls and add a large spoonful of kimchi (if using). Drizzle with any extra chilli sauce from the tofu, if you like.